Add release process for versioned docs. (#6)
Consensys/docs-template: docs/contribute/doc-release-process.md

---

> description: Release process for documentation that uses a versioning system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Release a new version of the documentation.
```

Update description to start with verb, to match descriptions for other pages in this section.

sidebar_position: 8
---

> # Documentation release process

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Release a new docs version
```

Can we update the title of this page to start with a verb, to match most of the other pages in this section?

Reviewer 2: This is a probably a good idea given the versioning audience is a subset of the whole

> The following instructions are for documentation that uses the Docusaurus versioning system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following instructions are for documentation that uses the [Docusaurus versioning system](https://docusaurus.io/docs/next/versioning).
```

:::info

> Currently, only the Teku documentation utilizes versioning, supporting just two versions: `stable` and `development`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, only the Teku documentation uses versioning, supporting just two versions: `stable` and `development`.
```

This means previous releases must be removed as part of the release process.
:::

A new stable version of the documentation is released when a new version of the software is released.

> In the following example we'll release the `23.6.3` version of the documentation (from `23.6.2`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following steps, we'll release the `23.6.3` version of the documentation (from `23.6.2`) as an example.
```

## Steps

You'll need to create a documentation pull request with the following changes:

> ### 1. Create a new version of the documentation:
>  
> Create a new documentation version by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1. Create a new version of the documentation
 
Create a new version by running the following command in the documentation repository:
```

<!--tabs-->

# Syntax

```bash
npm run docusaurus docs:version <VERSION-NUMBER>
```

# Example

```bash
npm run docusaurus docs:version 23.6.3
```

<!--/tabs-->

This command:

- Copies the full `docs/` directory into a new `version-<VERSION-NUMBER>` directory in the `versioned_docs` directory.

> - Creates a new `versioned_sidebars/version-<VERSION-NUMBER>-sidebars.json` file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Creates a new `versioned_sidebars/version-<VERSION-NUMBER>-sidebars.json` file.
```

- Appends the new version number to the `versions.json` file.

### 2. Update the `docusaurus.config.js` file

In `docusaurus.config.js`, under `presets` > `classic` > `docs`:

- Update the `lastVersion` to the new version number.

> - Under `versions`, update the current stable version to the new version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Under `versions`, update the current stable version to the new version.
```

file by updating the version number:

```javascript
presets: [
  [
    "classic",
    {
      docs: {
        sidebarPath: require.resolve("./sidebars.js"),
        // Set a base path separate from default /docs
        editUrl: "https://github.com/ConsenSys/doc.teku/tree/master/",
        routeBasePath: "/",
        path: "./docs",
        includeCurrentVersion: true,
        // highlight-next-line
        lastVersion: "23.6.3",
        versions: {
          //defaults to the ./docs folder
          // using 'development' instead of 'next' as path
          current: {
            label: "development",
            path: "development",
          },
          //the last stable release in the versioned_docs/version-stable
          // highlight-start
          "23.6.3": {
            label: "stable (23.6.3)",
          },
          // highlight-end
        },
...
],

```

### 3. Update the `versions.json` file

Delete the previous version from the `versions.json` file:

Before:

```json
[
  "23.6.3",
  "23.6.2"
]
```

After:

```json
[
  "23.6.3"
]
```

### 4. Delete the previous doc versions

> Lastly, we'll cleanup the documentation directory by deleting the previous stable docs. For this example it means:
> 
> 1. In the `versioned_docs` directory, delete the `version-23.6.2` folder

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lastly, we'll clean up the documentation directory by deleting the previous stable docs. For this example it means:

1. In the `versioned_docs` directory, delete the `version-23.6.2` folder.
```

2. In the `versioned_sidebars` directory, delete the `version-23.6.2-sidebars.json` file.

> Create your pull request. You can perform a final check using the Preview link that gets created for your PR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create your pull request. You can perform a final check using the preview link generated for your PR.
```
